Let's say you're looking at kids
and you want to keep notes for every child you look at.
She cared for 6 children in the last month
and you have records of the age of all 6 children.
But when you review your notes, you notice,
that some blue ink spilled over one of the numbers,
and you do not remember how great this child was.
At first you really wonder,
the entire record keeping system looks like ...
You know that information is lost.
But then you remember that every time,
when you record a new age in that month,
you recalculate the average value.
Here you have that the average value is 4,
the average age is 4 for the six children.
Knowing the average value
and the age of 5 of the 6 children,
can you find out what is the age of the sixth child?
I recommend that you pause the video
and try to find her alone.
I assume she already tried.
Let's call it just the unknown age,
let's call it a question mark.
Think about how to calculate
avarage value,
if we know how much this question mark is.
Yes, we would have taken the sum.
We would take the sum of everyone
ages
and then divide them
of the number of children.
Then we divide it into a number
of the ages we have,
and this will be equal
of the average.
Another possibility is
to multiply both sides by the number of ages
from this country
and the number of ages of that country.
This will be shortened,
and we shall remain with the assembly.
The sum will be equal to
avarage value
by age.
The average value by
by the number of data points,
or the number of ages.
We will be able to use this information,
because we only have this one
an unknown question mark here,
but we know the average and the number of ages.
We just have to find out what the question mark is.
Let's do it.
Let's get back to the beginning,
to make sense of all this with some numbers.
The sum of the ages will be
5 plus 2,
plus a question mark,
plus 2,
plus 4, plus 8.
We will divide this
of the number of ages.
We have 6 ages.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
6 ages.
And this will be equal
of the average.
The average value is 4.
This is how we calculate the average value.
Let's see if we can simplify.
5 plus 2 is 7.
Let me write it with ... That's another color.
2 plus 4 is 6, plus 8
is 14.
Then 7 plus 14 is 21.
We reached 21 plus a question mark
on 6 is equal to 4.
Now we can do what we did at the beginning of the recording.
We can multiply both sides by the number of ages,
the number of data points we have.
We can multiply
both sides
6.
6 from this country, 6 from this country.
6 in the numerator, 6 in the denominator, these are abbreviated.
What's left to us?
On the left side, we still have 21 plus a question mark.
The green numbers
we have simplified them -
5 plus 2, plus 2, plus 4, plus 8 is 21.
And we still have the question mark.
We get 21 plus a question mark,
I want to write this with the green,
21 plus this question mark -
the thing we are trying to find,
the unknown number will be
equal to
4 at 6.
How many 4 in 6?
24.
And how much is the question mark?
21 plus how much is equal to 24?
Of course you can,
just say that it will be 3.
Or if you want, you can say,
that the question mark
will be equal
at 24 minus 21,
which of course is 3.
Just to write it down,
the question mark is equal to 3.
We were able to find the unknown age
based on the information we had,
because we had the average value.
We have succeeded in finding that behind this spot,
was written 3.
It's very exciting.